Yeah, so, just a quick comment came
in about Feynman I believe we're
talking about Richard Feynman who is
I think, is set forth a blueprint for
anybody who aspires to achieve
mastery with any domain.
He is phenomenal, I also recommend and
ironically somebody said,
you should learn how to draw basic
diagrams, and I totally agree.
Keynote is my favorite, and
I've spent a lot of time drawing diagrams.
This is a totally random comment,
but Edward Tufte,
is kinda one of the godfathers of
informational representation and
visualization, and I think that the stuff
that he's done is absolutely fascinating.
So, there was a question that
came in on a few chats if
I was going to talk about call and
apply, and
I have an example on if you look into
the stack blitzes on event storming and
there is a piece of code in
there where I do use apply and
I will comment on that when I get there.
So, the question is in a business context,
how do I lead the conversation
when it comes to throwing away
the prototype versus productizing it.
And I would say one, the business case for
building the right thing is airtight,
that it does not take
too much logic to make
a case that we should build
things that people want.
And so, first of all,
you have to establish that and
a lot of times I've had to reduce what
is a very emotional conversation into,
are you telling me that you
are willing to invest organizational
resources to build something that
our users may not care about?
And so, most people are like, no, no way.
That's what I'm saying.
And so I said,
when it behoove us to ensure that
we are building the right thing.
And so first of all,
I believe a lot of times even conversation
sometimes can get emotional when in fact
the two people on each side of the table
they want the same thing which is to build
things that people love Is just becoming
aligned on how that's going to look.
And so that one,
the conversation has to be like,
are we committed to building
something that people care about?
Secondly, are we committed
to doing it the right way?
And on the flip side is engineers that I
am going to, hopefully in this workshop,
help you close that delta
between this is prototype code,
this is production code to where if
I'm doing a high fidelity prototype,
there's absolutely no reason
why I couldn't launch it.
Because I endeavor to write my
prototypes to the same standards that I
would write any other code,
the reason why would throw it away is
because it's immutable and
I need a another iteration.
And I think it would actually,
it would be interesting for
organizations that are I
would say very rigid and
stuck in their ways to start treating or
adopting more of a prototype
mindset in the sense of how
do we iterate fast and
push things out to our customer base.
So, a company's ability to take an idea,
and
put it in front of a potential customer.
That the time that it takes to do that,
and
a company's ability to shorten that is
its greatest competitive advantage.
So, one, the conversation is,
at the end of the day,
we're saving time and we're saving money.
The next question that
is how do we do that?
And one of the mindsets around rapid
prototyping that I want to address, is
that prototypes are substandard that they
should be thrown away, and the answers
I believe when you do them correctly,
they don't have to be thrown away.
When you reach an iteration that you like,
keep that iteration and
it's comes down to just a slightly
different approach to architecture.
The question is,
when you are reducing effort and
I think time to build a prototype or
an artifact.
How do you measure that
in a meaningful way?
If that's, if I understand that correctly,
is that when you are communicating, like,
Hey, I want to try this, by what
metrics can we use to validate that?
And this is a little bit science,
a little bit art,
but I think ultimately
organizations should, one,
keep track of how long it takes for
an idea from conception.
So, the time from conception to
production is really important.
So, this is where you have to have a good
relationship with the product team and
as well as the architecture,
the infrastructure teams,
how long does it take for
an idea to get put into production?
And you need to keep track of that.
Secondly, is you need to keep track of
the things that we have in production.
What is the engagement around
these particular features?
And so, one, if you built in,
if you go read the lean startup and
there's tons of books on this,
that if you spent six months
building something, and
it should have taken 12 months, but
you did it in six months and
nobody uses it, was that a victory?
Did you actually accomplish anything?
And the answer's no.
And so, ultimately,
at the end of the day, we as programmers,
we exist to build things
that are meaningful and
have an impact and are relevant to people.
This is why program, I don't think about
languages, I don't think about frameworks.
What I think about is,
can I put something in somebody's hands
that's going to make their life better?
Am I going to reduce pain?
Am I going to help them
do something faster?
Even am I going to introduce
some level of novelty?
So, the example I use, is if you've ever
been to a restaurant and one of your kids
is just having a fit and you pull up
a silly 99 cent game on your phone,
and you hand it to him, and
all of a sudden now they're pacified.
Somebody willing to be like, well,
that little balloon game, that's silly,
that's not even worth doing.
But in that moment,
not only is it relevant to you, but
every other patron in that restaurant.
And so, it's really, really important
to realize that we're not centered or
we don't exist for output,
we exist for outcomes, and
what outcomes are we achieving
at the business level?
And so,
a great way to I think to measure that is,
what is the engagement on your products?
Do people love them?
And secondly,
is how long does it take from an idea
to go from conception to production?
And from there, there's a ton of things
that you can slice up to to measure that.
So, hopefully that answered your question.
It is going to vary a little bit from
organization to organization, but
those are the two I think really
really important things is,
do people like what you're building?
And how long does it take to conceive
something and then build that thing?
And companies that are very,
very good at this, they are constantly
putting things in front of people that
they love and they keep buying it.
I think Apple is a really
good example of this.
Most of their releases are iterative.
But, they have a way of building
things that people love.
I would say halfway through my
career when I realized that,
I don't like code because I just love
the sound of my fingers clattering on
the keyboard at the middle
of the night is that,
when you build things that people love and
you actually can capture that moment.
So, at one point, I worked for Shutterfly,
and it was always interesting to me
because I I worked for Shutterfly,
and they'd always be like,
my mom loves Shutterfly, my girlfriend
loves Shutterfly, I love Shutterfly.
And I didn't really get it until I
basically had to burn through some
coupon codes and I purchased a book
that from a Grand Canyon trip and
I'm holding this in my hands and
I was just floored that the code
that I'd written translated
into this physical book.
And that fundamentally changed the way
that I think about programming as
a whole is that programming is just
a means that the end is really I think,
a deeper connection and a really creating
value for the broader population.
So, I know that Mark and I are very
much philosophically aligned on on this
particular point,
which is why funding masters exist.